"(a) Which three parties involved in a typical civil engineering contract? Who is responsible for supervising the works/contract?
 (b) What are included in the contract/tender document?
 (c) Name some resident site staff (RSS) and their responsibilities.""(a) What are the common types of contract?
 (b) Why sometime (firm) Bill of Quantities is included for a lump sum contract?
 (c) Who will be responsible for preparing the Bill of Quantities?
 (d) Which types of contract will you adopted for a typical foundation (only) works? Why?""(a) What are the important resources to be considered in construction management?
 (b) How can you monitor the progress of construction?
 (c) In what situation should Extension of Time be granted?""(a) Which factor(s) will be considered while assessing a submitted tender for public works contract?
 (b) What is the weighting of those factors? (e.g. 6:4 or 3:7?)
 (c) How about private jobs?""a.What are the parties involved in the civil contract?
 b.Which party signs the contract with client?
 c.What are the responsibilities and role of consultant in the project?
 d.How does the consultant ensure the quality of works?
 e.What are the duties and responsibilities of supervision engineer?
 f.How does the engineer confirm/ensure about the quality of materials, such as reinforcement bar and concrete?
 g.For the payment part, how does the client pay to the contractor, base on the bill of quantities (BOQ) and lump sum?""- What are the parties in an engineering contract?
 - What are the role of The Engineer
 - What are the types of contract
 - What contract documents fo we have?""- What is included in BQs
 - What is NEC/NEO
 - Any contract documents?"- How can the government appoint a main contractor?"知道鉛水事件是什麼嗎?
 你認為誰應付上最大責任?
 香港的食水喉普遍用什麼物料?"一帶一路試舉出三名現時立法會工程界功能組別議員名字"Chief Executive Election
 - How many seats in committee? (answered 1500, should be 1200)
 - How many signs for people to become a candidate? (150)
 - Are all selection committee from Functional Groups election?
 - Will there be some seats directly appointed?
 - How many votes a candidate must get in order to become the CE?""MPF
 - What is the MPF scheme raised in policy address?
 - What is the formula
 - Anything related to that?"雙非孕婦零配額 贊成嗎?對現時人口政策之意見油麻地戲院是幾級歷史建築物? 用幾錢翻新? 值不值得? 會不會太偏重粵劇?贊成興建第三條跑道嗎？ 有否其他解決方法（如開放空域）？今天早上那個國家進行導彈試射？射程有多遠？贊成可加可減機制嗎？你認為港鐵有否“謀取暴利”？對現時隧道收費的意見塞車對社會有什麼影響？現任 3 名司長是誰？職責分別是什麼？Criteria in港鐵可加可減機制立法會職能你同意” 拉布” 嗎?第一次拉布是因為什麼事?"立法會
 a.立法會的用途
 b.立法會議員是如何產生的
 c.一共有多少個立法會議員
 d.你最有印象的立法會議員""戴卓爾夫人
 a.戴卓爾夫人在任首相多少年
 b.戴卓爾夫人有什麼事績""博鰲亞洲論壇
 a.有什麼國家參與
 b.討論什麼""- 反水貨客
 - 邊境購物城
 - 標準工時""- 雅安地震
 - H7N9""- 最近的倫常慘案
 - 對限奶令的意見
 - 對自由行的看法 (應否限制?)""- 碼頭工人問題
 - 戴卓爾夫人為70年代英國帶來什麼影響?""- How could the environmental issues be applied to infrastructures
 - Infrastructures in Asia, Europe, China""** GEG
 [Related to GEO's work]
 - What is Critical State (Soil Mechanis) - CSSM
 - (I did tri-axial test in FYP) Do you think that the (strain-controlled) tests you did are comparible to the failures in the real world?
 - How did you apply CSSM in your FYP
 - What are the stress paths for loose / medium / dense saids that you did? (p.s. specifty total stress / effective stress) (One guy tried to fool me by asing is it drained / undrained?)
 - What are the other findings of your FYP
 - Challenges on the definitions / cases beyond the FYP Study
 - Are there any cases in the real world related to the FYP? (Practicality of FYP)
 - Foundation, on loose materials?
 - How / what test can be performed to find the consolidation settlement of footing?""- How are you?
 - How do you arrive at the office?
 - Have you been here before?"- Internship
 Draw and demonstrate the steps in calculating the active pressure of retaining wall under surchargeSuggest ways to stablized the slope in the following pictureDraw Active Earth Pressure, and value in variables"Slope
 (a) What are the consideration(s) while assessing a slope?
 (b) Please propose suitable location for carrying out GI on a slope
 (c) Will the location be different between fill slope and cut slope?
 (d) Please, as many as possible, propose measure to stabilize a slope""Retaining Wall
 (a) Draw and demonstrate the steps in calculating the active pressure of retaining wall under surcharge
 (b) Detailing of rebar in cantilever retaining wall, identify location of main reinforcement
 (c) How to calculate sliding resistance between retaining wall and ground
 (d) Demonstrate how to obtain the factor Ka""Consolidation
 (a) What are the differences between consolidation and compaction?
 (b) Are there any methods to speed up the consolidation process?""Deep Foundation
 (a) Please list out common types of pile foundation/ deep foundation
 (b) What is the loading mechanism of bored pile, Is the major load take up by end bearing resistance or shaft resistance? Why?""Shallow Foundation
 (a) Please list out common types of shallow foundation.
 (b) Name the test that shall be carried out prior to the commencement of foundation works""Interaction between structures
 (a) From the picture below, please describe how the shallow foundation will affect the tunnel underground""Soil classification
 (a) How to distinguish sand, clay and silt?
 (b) What is the size range of a boulder?""Tunneling
 (a) What a TBM is?
 (b) Are there any other methods in tunnel construction?""a.How to assess the stability of the slope?
 b.What factor affecting the stability of the slope?
 c.How the water table affecting the stability of slope?
 d.What is the equation of shear strength?
 e.What test is used to find the shear strength of soil?
 f.Further explain about the tri-axial test.
 g.Which type of tri-axial test is used, if there is a heavy rainfall?
 h.Which type of tri-axial test is used, if the soil is in low permeability?
 i.If the slope is unstable, how to stabilize it?""- A graph of inverted T-shape retaining wall given, draw all the forces / pressure exerting on the wall
 - Effect of water level on the stability of wall
 - How to improve the safety and draw it down
 - Ground improvement techniques and the mechanisms""- What is ultimate limit state?
 - Wjat sjpi;d ne cpmsodered om desogm?
 - Why do we need site investigation?
 - What is top-down?
 - What is Darcy's Law?""(a) What is a service reservoir?
 (b) Why do we build a service reservoir? (Hint: Potable water, Level difference)""(a) What is the definition of Reynold’s Number, Froude Number and, more importantly, their physical meaning?
 (b) What is hydraulic jump? Is there any application on this phenomenon?""(a) What is the consideration(s) in designing/ constructing a reservoir with pumping station?
 (b) What is the function of a service reservoir? Why don’t have direct supply from reservoir?""(a) What is the possible reason(s) of pipe bursting?
 (b) What is the normal range of flow speed in a gravity pipe (pipe that transport water by gravity instead of pressure)? What is the problem if the flow speed is out of the specified range?""Theory
 (a) What is the definition of Reynold’s Number, Froude Number and, more importantly, their physical meaning?
 (b) What is hydraulic jump? Is there any application on this phenomenon?""Reservoir
 (a) What is the consideration(s) in designing/ constructing a reservoir with pumping station?
 (b) What is the function of a service reservoir? Why don’t have direct supply from reservoir?""Pipe
 (a) What is the possible reason(s) of pipe bursting?
 (b) What is the normal range of flow speed in a gravity pipe (pipe that transport water by gravity instead of pressure)? What is the problem if the flow speed is out of the specified range?""a.How to estimate the peak discharge, and what additional information is required?
 b.What is the empirical equation, by making use of A and Q?
 c.Explain the method of finding peak discharge by using unit hydrograph?
 d.What is unit hydrograph, and how to use?
 e.How to measure the rainfall intensity?
 f.How to measure the rainfall intensity, since we cannot measure rainfall intensity of every watershed?""- Can you draw a design storm?
 - How to measure runoff?""- Concrete, when writing specification, what should be included
 - Concrete, when crack occurs
 - How to reduce crack in case of lack of water""Slump test
 (a) What test(s) are required before permission of concrete casting on site?
 (b) What are the nominal ranges of slump value?
 (c) Please explain the rationale of why a high slump value is required for reinforced concrete.
 (d) Will you accept a delivered concrete material, which slump value is deviate from the specified range? Why?
 (e) Are there any implication(s) for a higher/ lower slump value?""Pavement
 (a) Please point out two major types of pavement system nowadays.
 (b) What are the advantages/ disadvantages of both of them?
 (c) Please proposes which type of pavement system you will adopt for an emergency repair works.""Concrete
 (a) What is the normal grade of concrete and size of aggregate? (Please answer in range)
 (b) Please compare the advantage(s) of using Reinforced concrete/ Steel as construction material""Concrete in Marine Structure
 (a) What kind of concrete will be used for constructing piers? What is the difference(s) of that concrete which allows it to suit the use?
 (b) Beside the design mix of concrete, what measure(s) would be taken to marine structure?""Water Retaining Structure
 (a) Please point out the design considerations of water retaining structure, and the requirements on design concrete mix
 (b) What is the crack limit for water retaining structure? Please suggest measures to provide sufficient crack control.
 (c) Please point out construction considerations for building water-retaining structure.""Steel
 (a) What are the two common types of steels used in construction?
 (b) What are the characteristic strengths of these type of steels?
 (c) What are the differences between the two types of steel bars? Which types is more commonly used and why?""a.What is the durability of reinforced concrete?
 b.What the factors affecting the durability?
 c.How the weathering affecting the durability?
 d.Is there any restriction of reinforcement in concrete?
 e.What is the value nominal cover of reinforced concrete?
 f.What is the value of nominal cover of reinforced cover, if the concrete is used in water?
 g.Will the nominal cover be thicker, and why?""- Concrete charateristic strength
 - Concrete cube test (how, results)
 - Concrete design for service reservoir
 - Water pipe -> how will burst?
 - Water pipe -> what material of pipe"- What is hydration of concrete"- What is charateristic strength of concrete
 - What is 30/20 D for concrete?
 - What factors affect workability of concrete?
 - What should be fone when ocncrete arrives at the site?""Site formation
 (a) What are the steps /preparations in a typical site formation works?""- What is manholes?
 - What are their functions?
 - How will you place the manholes along a 1km drainage?""- What to do if accidents happened?
 - What is the role of safety officers"- Procedures for building a embarkment on site?"a) If you are going to construct a footbridge across Nathon Road, what loads are you going to consider?
 b) What would you do to mitigate the influence to the surrounding e.g. publics?""Draw the bending moment diagram.
 (Need to consider the force from soil and ignore the self weight of base slab)""-Draw Bending Moment Diagram
 -Explain why is it drawn
 -How the roof of structure can be strengthened""(a) What is Characteristic Strength?
 (b) What is the purpose of minus 1.64SD in the formula?"(a) Please demonstrate the concept of structure indeterminacy by drawing examples."Material Strength
 (a) What is Characteristic Strength?
 (b) What is the purpose of minus 1.64SD in the formula?""Structure Indeterminacy
 (a) Please demonstrate the concept of structure indeterminacy by drawing examples.""- Shear crack of simply supported beam
 - Bending reinforcement of cantilever"Draw BMDDesign: steel reinforcement for beam/conlumn"- Bending moment diagram
 - Where should the reinformcement be placed in the column in the structure?"- Draw Bending Moment Diagram"- Definition of intersection and roundabout
 - Conditions when intersection / roundabout shall be used
 - when there is a moninant traffic in one road, should intersection or roundabout be adopted?
 - Definition of p.c.u.
 - Shall design speed be calculated based on the conversion of different p.c.u.?"Self Introduction"Q1  (6 Environmental)Draw a sketch about Sewage Treatment Process and explain what you have drawn
Q2  (5 Hydraulic)澳門內港水浸既成因+解決方法；除左起儲水庫同pumping station仲有無其他方法？
Q3  (1 Structural)Draw moment diagram and related RC detailing ,再加以解釋
Q4  (2 Geotechnical)如果喺彌敦道起天橋，在設計階段有咩要注意/有咩consideration?  why?
Q5  (3 Construction Management)在HKU黃竹坑宿舍建設工程中，除了使用BIM同MiC之外，仲有無其他advanced technology可以用？
Q6  (3 Construction Management)BIM 點樣幫到起Underground utilities?"如果在彌敦道起天橋，在設計階段有什么要注意/consideration? why?"a) 在HKU黃竹坑宿舍建設工程中，除了使用BIM同MiC之外，仲有無其他advanced technology可以用？
b) BIM 點樣幫到起Underground utilities?"澳門內港水浸既成因+解決方法；除了起儲水庫和pumping station仲有無其他方法？Draw a sketch about Sewage Treatment Process and explain what you have drawn"a) Draw the flexural and shear cracks and the corresponding reinforcement (for different views) of a RC beam
b) What is the shape of an RC beam that can effectively sustain a large shear stress?"Show a graph of a map (showing an artificial land somewhere) and ask what can you think of about this map. Then proceed to ask follow-up questions based on what you have said. Possibly related land reclamationAsk what are the construction innovations that you know other than BIM and modular construction (Possibly too many people answer these two before, so need to research more on the innovations)."a) 你知唔知近期有什麼收費加價?(巴士加價)
b) 加價要不要經立法會?
c) 你對巴士服務的看法?
d) 你對大埔交通意外的調查報告有什麼看法? "Design build project"First round - Group discussion
- Self Introduction 30 s (Cantonese)
- 5v5 Debate on topic about current affairs (台北夜市文化對香港經濟發展是好處多過壞處) in Cantonese""Second round - Group Task (4v4 or 3v3, depends)
(Construction of Bridge/Tower etc)
- Using newspaper and marking scheme is provided
- 10mins Design, 10-15mins Build, 5 mins present your idea
- 10mins q&a to both groups (about your design/leadership questions like who is the leader in your group)""The best candidate(s) will be selected to final round interview on the same day.
- 5mins preparation (paper n marker)
- 5 mins presentation in front of panel
- 10 mins panel questions
(about your topic, e.g. co-living, career aspirations in 5/10years...random questions)
Current affairs will be asked like 沙中線/明日大嶼 (build or not)""Questions were based on the written test, especially for the question related to structural system. The interviewers asked me to present my ideas first, then they would ask follow-up questions based on your answer.
For example, I said truss may be good to be used in a long span structure, so they asked questions about the design of truss (e.g. span-depth ratio, types, advantages etc.)"The interviewer want to know if you are suitable for the company. They asked you about my leadership experience and conflict management. They also asked you about your interest and exchange experience."a) Introduce yourself.
b) Describe what you did in your internship.
c) What is your FYP about?
d) Explain your answers in the written test.
e) What were your duties when you were the captain of your sports team at university?
f) If one of your teammates in your sports team is falling behind in progress, how will you help him?
g) If your team captain is doing something unfavorable to the team, what will you do as a team member?
h) Recall one of your failure experiences. And if you can go back in time, what would you do differently?
i) Which discipline(s) do you prefer?""a) What type of foundation was used in your internship?
b) What is the diameter of a large diameter bored pile?
c) How deep is an ELS?"What is your career path in AECOM?"a) What will you measure as parameters for incinerator?
b) Do you know what is EM and A?
c) Is there any technology that can increase the sustainability of a water treatment plant?""Format:
30 mins Technical questions
15 mins Soft Skill questions
10 mins Q&A
Technical Questions ======
>Related to the Written Test
1) Explain 1st technical question (refer to attached file) regarding system design:
a) What about the site boundary? Would it impose any problem to your design proposal?
b) What about the ground water? How would you propose to do the design of basement structures?
c) What about the exhibition hall? What if the client wants to make it as a truss roof, how would you quickly design and analyse it in front of the client? What would be the chord system of the truss? What would you propose to the architects for initial design size of the members?
d) Please draw the loading path for your proposed foundation system.
e) now say that I am going to make a plastic tubular pile cover on the first 10 m of your Foundation pile. What will be your concern?
2) If you answer BMD perfectly they will not ask anything.
3) Connection: explain the internal forces transfer of the connection.
>General Technical Questions
4) How would you analyse RC beam deflection? What method would you use (Elastic/Plastic/etc.)? What if a structural engineer say to you to use deflection from elastic model (M/EI), would you agree? Why or why not?
5) Please tell me more about creep in RC. How do you think it affects your design?
Soft Skill Questions ======
1) Please tell me more about your encounter with Building Department Structural Engineer. How did you resolve problems with him? What if he/she suggested unreasonable method for you, what would you have done?
2) Please tell me more about how did you maintain deadlines? As the team leader in your capstone group, what were your strategies? What if your colleagues did not adhere to the internal deadlines?
3) What do you know about numerical computational engineering? What is your opinion on the matter? How would you rate your ability on this field?
4) How would you solve requirements from a demanding client? What if they asked you to finish something complicated within a night? Would you agree to that condition? Do you think it is acceptable only finishing 80% of the job on the following morning and supplementing the rest 20% on the following day?
5) Why did you decide to leave [your company] now as it seems your boss sees you in high regards?
6) Would you want to go back to Indonesia in a medium or long term future? Why? What do you want to do?
7) What do you think about Modular Integrated Construction (MiC)? Do you think it is implementable in HK? What do you see as a barrier in implementing MiC in HK?""1st Interview (Group Discussions): Total 4 participants
with HR

> Task #1 Make a personal schedule for three day tasks.
   (22 mins) Preparation & Discussion
   (08 mins) Presentation of Idea

*For task 1, some items do not have specific time/place, candidates are expected to logically determine this. Half way into the 22 mins period, an ''emergency'' random case is introduced to the group to be incorporated to the schedule.

*Judging Criteria: Logic & Reasoning, Teamwork, Presentation Skills
  Task #2 Game of ''Overcook'' Roleplay
    (05 mins) 1st Preparation & Discussion
    (06 mins) 1st Roleplay Service
    (01 min  ) 2nd Preparation & Discussion
    (06 mins) 2nd Roleplay Service
    (01 min  ) 3rd Preparation & Discussion + Chance for Trade
    (06 mins) 3rd Roleplay Service

**Essentially there are three roles (1 Waiter, Cook, Helper), we can have either 2 Cooks + 1 Helper or 1 Cook + 2 Helpers. Waiter remembers the client requests, Cook cuts and colours the ingredients, Helper plates the dish.

**In the 3rd discussion time, the chance for trade allows us to trade 1 scissor or 5 colour pencils with one basket of ingredients.

**Judging Criteria: No. of succesful servings + quality of servings, Teamwork, Planning and Management abilities

***EVERY TASK will be concluded by a sharing session that asks candidates to say ''what you have learnt from the tasks''.
""*) 30 mins technical test (refer to the attached file)
3 questions regarding Structural analysis, detailing of RC columns and footings, steel connections.

45 mins interview:
1) Interview start even you haven't finished your test, explain all your answers + subsequent questions related to technical stuffs. If you have not finished your test, you still need to answer everything face-to-face with the interviewer.
2) Go through your transcript, he asked about what did you learn in some courses, where do you go for exchange? e.g. he asked what is the content of RC design or Structural Analysis.
3) Language proficiency, he asked what is your native language. How about Cantonese and Mandarin? He hinted at possibility of working with mainlanders so be confident in ''can'' spirit to resolve language problems.
4) Go through CV. He asked about your experiences in intern, what you projects did you work on, etc. And highlight on the awards you got + computer skill (BIM, SAP, etc.)
5) Need details on capstone and FYP. He will ask some technical stuffs and argue against your designs.
6) What is your plan in the future?
7) Do you consider other companies?
8) Q&A""(1) Structural
Please see attachment (second written test)""Self-introduction in English
What have you done in internship?
Experiences in academic exchange""Arrange a three day schedule for your manager. Do a 8 mins presentation
Cooperation game - Overcook (cut and colour)""a) Self Intro
b) What is the most critical changes have you faced? How do you overcome?
c) If you are having different opinions with group-mates,  what would you do?
d) What have you learnt that are most important to you if you work in Gammon?
e) What is the situation that you work the best and work the worst? (In English)""(1) Structural
Please refer to attachment (Draw on the paper)""a) Self introduction in English
b) Introduce your Final Year Project in 2 mins using Mandarin
c) What have you done for your internship? (Detailed)
d) Exchange experiences (What have you learnt?)
e) If you were the Senior Engineer, you ask one of the graduate engineers to work on something, but he refused to do so. What would you do?""Group Discussion:
What would you take (7 items) with you if you know that the plane that you are going to take will crash. Discuss and present your idea"What if I cannot play sports when I enter the industry (because I said I love sports), what will you do if your school teammates are late or absent for the training?Bending moment diagram ( in the photo)"Slope W, retaining wall, what is important for the design of retaining wall
What do we need to calculate for the design of gravity wall
What is the typical bearing capacity of soil""What is the function of slump test,
What requirement for concrete in reinforce concrete by slump test,
What if the slump test result is not suitable (higher or lower), will you still use it?""Group Discussion:
How to facilitate the cooperation between the sub con and main con to maximise profit, safety, quality ""a) Technique: How to calculate shear capacity in steel design?
b) How to calculate moment capacity in steel design?""a) What grade of concrete is deemed as high-strength concrete?
b) What is the difference of construction procedure between S30 and S80 concrete?
c) Why there is cracks on the ground?""a) Name a few projects of our company.
b) Why our company should hire you over other candidates?
c) If other team did not finish their works in time, what would you do?
d) Why you choose contractor but no consultant?""Group presentation:
The importance of communication in civil engineering industry and how to improve it.""Group presentation: Develop a signature building in HK.
20 minutes to prepare the presentation and make a powerpoint.
15 minutes to presentation. (4 people in a group, conduct in English)
Q & A session afterward.""What is your fyp topic?
What is your duty in the capstone project ?"Technical questions related to Geotechnical Engineering (e.g. slope stability, tests to determine shear strength parameters, Mohr’s circle, stress path, liquefaction, HK geology)"a) What are the main duties of GEO?
b) Which area do you think GEO still has room for improvement?
c) What measures have GEO taken in order to prevent landslides? Do you think landslide is completely preventable?
d) What is the difference between a Geotechnical and civil engineer? You’ve mentioned that civil engineers encounter less uncertainties, does it mean the job of a civil engineer is much easier?
e) What do you think about the policies regarding land supply as mentioned in the Policy Address? Do you know what is cavern development? Do you support this idea? How to make sure the cavern is safe?""1. why do you propose this strcuture in written test?
2. How about XXX happen, how would you change?
3. What is your internship project??"Bending moment diagram"Group discussion:
List the below successful project criteria in order (safety, profit, time, environment impact, quality)?"Debate question: 插針式興建公屋利多於弊設計考牌門檻 (for chartership)"a) What is the key element in the EIA process? (public engagement)
b) What do you know about public engagement in EIA process
c) What if a party claim that they disagree the project because they just dislike it?
d) How do you view the air quality in HK?
e) Somebody claim that the use of electric car is only shifting the emission problem to power plant, what is your opinion?"固體廢物收費既需要同困難之處